Okay, this is a continuation of the interview.
Mary Hicks was the first one. She was the first one.
The second was Mrs. William Kirksey,
K-I-R-K-S-E-Y.
We were extremely important to Mrs. Kirksey in
that she had been an army librarian. She was a
graduate of Peabody College in Tennessee and
extremely well trained. Her husband was a captain
with 12 years service who was presently in
veterinary school. Mrs. Kirksey applied at the
main library and about the time Mrs. Hicks turned
in her resignation, So
we had a second well-trained librarian. During
Mrs. Kirksey's tenure,
the library was moved from the
main campus to the site west of the tracks where it
is still located.
There was no money,
or at least Mr. House, the librarian, said there
was no money for extra help.
So the various departments paid student labor for
a short time. And then Mr. House decided that the
main library could take over payment of student
labor. So it was a welcome help for Mrs. Kirksey and
served the additional purpose that many students
were acquainted with library procedure who
otherwise would not have been able to.
Following Mrs. Kirksey, who left when her husband
graduated, Incidentally, they are now located in
Fort Worth, where he's a successful
practitioner.
We've had several well-trained librarians up and
into and including the present.
The advent of the medical school
here gave the veterinary library an
enormous boost. And its name was changed from the
Veterinary Medical Library to the Medical
Resources Library. Gave it an enormous boost in
which way? In demand on it and demand for services,
I should say. It is now, as I am almost sure, still
known as the Medical Resources Library, which
includes Budner Medicine as well as Bowles
College of Medicine. And that's about all there is
to it. We just started from tall and built up.
Right, right. And on the committee, you were
basically in charge of the relationship between
the university's libraries and the School of Vet
Medicine. Yes. And also probably ordering books
and things like that. Well, I rubber-stamped
them, but I wasn't questioned. Our book orders
primarily came from demand or request by student
faculty, and if this fellow is an annoyed student,
expert in the field, who would I be to question it?
So it was a matter of rubber stamping.
Occasionally, we'd have some of the students want
to bring in things, for example, like newspapers
or whatnot, or fiction. We thought that was a part
of the main library. In other words, we kept a
pretty close touch on what was really should
belong in the veterinary library over in the main
library. We had no intentions of expelling a
student because you walked into the main library.
In fact, we encouraged them to go over there. And
Mr. House was extremely sympathetic
to the veterinary library. And when he found that
we in the veterinary library end of it fucked the
way we did about the main library, we had no
trouble. We were parallel rather than
competitive.
Now I would imagine that the budget that you had to
buy books grew tremendously. Yeah, primarily
because, you know, a librarian lives by
statistics. Any librarian. If you got a library
with 10,000 books there and nobody used it, you're
in a pretty bad way. So as the use increased and
demand for books increased, of course the budget
increased. And the budget went through the main
library. We were a part of Cushing Memorial
Library.
Now, were there any other committees that you
served on for a time like this? What were the most
important ones, or what would you consider the
most important, and let's talk about those and
your duties on those. Well, I was 15 years on the
Veterinary Library Committee. I was 20 years on
the Annual Conference for Veterinarians, which
is no longer held.
Why isn't that held? This is a national
conference? No, it was statewide. It's no longer
held for two reasons. First,
the AVMA, I mean the TVMA, the Texas Veteran
Medical Association, wanted to move their
meetings around. It started here way back there
when Dr. Francis was here. This was the focus
of all meetings. For years, all the Texas
Veterinary Medical Association meetings were
held at College Station. And then they started
holding the winter meetings. And
rather than the strict business meeting, the
meeting at College Station evolved into a
conference or seminar type meeting. And then as
the state grew in number of veterinarians,
And as the number of students grew here,
we thought it would be wise to discontinue it and
turn it over entirely to the Texas Veterinary
Medical Association and be their
responsibility. But it served a need through the
years, the war years and on through. Well, why
wasn't it continued then? I don't know exactly,
except that, as I said, there
was a phenomenon known as continuing education,
which reared its head. And
these continuing education seminars were held
various places through a various time of year, and
it pretty well superseded the purpose of the
conference as such. Okay, what other main
committees? Well, of course, I was on the
selection committee five long years. And what
were your duties there?
Trying to figure out who was lying to me and who
wasn't when they said you only wanted to be a
veterinarian.
In other words, selected students. Yes. That was a
no good job. Why not?
How would you like to pick out 60 boys out of 300 and
say that you're in and you're out? Yeah.
It was no good. We stayed out there night after
night. And then it got to big that we couldn't have
personal interviews, so they... Oh, you had
personal interviews to begin with? Yes. Until
when did you stop? Oh, I don't remember, but
stopped about the time I went off the board. But
then we went over their academic list and threw out
those that were hopelessly no good. I mean,
ineligible, I wouldn't say they were no good, but
they were maybe too old or maybe they had a sorry
academic record or various other things. And then
they started interviewing those who might
possibly have a chance. So I don't know. I don't
know, I haven't been on it for 25 years now. You were
on it back in the 1940s? Yeah, when it first
started.
When Dr. Dunn was dean and later when Dr. Boughton
was dean. Dean at that time was chairman of the
selection committee. Then he got smart and
assigned it to a faculty member so he wouldn't
catch the flake.
How long were your interviews with each one of
these students back in the 1940s? We'd try to take
10 a night. 10 interviews a night? Give them about
20 minutes, I guess. I know we'd get out there at 7,
8, or 12. And how many would interview? Well, there
were always five of us there. We interviewed in a
group. This one little old boy would come in and
meet five staff at church there. And if he knew
anything at all, he usually was scared out of him
before he started. But I remember one time, one of
the interviewers asked
an applicant, were you in the service? He said,
yes, sir.
He said, what branch of the Army were you in? The guy
said, the Marines, sir, not Army. So things like
that. We'd try to get acquainted with them, find
out if they knew any veterinarians and why they
wanted to be a veterinarian. Of course, we knew the
answer to that, because they'd always wanted to be
a veterinarian. What are you supposed to do after
you're out? Go back to my hometown and practice.
Will you be large animals or small? They'd all say
large animals, so a lot of it was just routine
questions. The main idea just kind of tied them up
as the type of boy. general overall appearance and
cleanliness and neatness. Of course, that was
sort of a deal, too, because anybody would be
stupid that wouldn't get a haircut and shave
before they went in to interview. But we did the
best we could, and I'm sure we turned down some very
good boys, but we had the consolation of we didn't
let many in that didn't make the grade. And that was
our main deal, was to not waste placed on somebody
who wouldn't make it.
Well, I would imagine that your attrition rate was
very low. It is. It was and is. Oh, they drop out
because of illness or unavoidable accidents or
things, but, and the attrition rate of graduate
veterinarians is really low. The veterinary
profession, as such, don't lose near as many from
their ranks to even the MDs. Really? That's right.
Once you're a veterinarian, you're usually...
How can you account for that? I can't account for
it. I'm just telling you a fact. That's really an
interesting fact.
It is really interesting. I thought it would
probably be pretty close for both veterinarians
and MDs. Well, I don't know now in 19... 1979, 1980,
but in... In the 1960s. Yeah. Okay. Now, how about
some other committees that you served on? No, I
don't remember. After all, when you've been there
31 years, you've served on practically every
committee. Okay, okay. We tried to rotate
committees around. I was on the library committee
and the chairman of the conference along with me.
The Library Committee is 15 years to a day and the
Congress Committee was 20 years. And I've been on
the curriculum with him from time to time and on
various other things, but he
has had a department and
being there that long while I had a chance, most
committed one time or another. Right. Okay, now I
have another question. With the growth of the
number of veterinarians, there are also a rapid
growth of the number of people in the professional
staff, especially after the Second World War.
Yes. And I was wondering what impact these
professional staff members had on the College of,
or School of Veterinarian Medicine. I don't
understand, what do you mean impact? I think it's
tend to upgrade it.
We had our first, as I remember, DVM was also PHDs
along about that time. And I also remember that
along about the 1950s Maybe in the 60s we had our
first PhDs without the DVM for things like, as I
mentioned, biology, bacteriology,
and so forth. OK. We've talked about quite a few
changes in the School of Veterinarian Medicine.
What have I missed? I think you've covered it
pretty good. Is there anything else? I mean, we've
talked about the specialization, the broader
curriculum, women, and increasing number of
students and research and faculty and
enrollment. Is there something else that we
should, do you think that perhaps you had a role in
something else that you think that we should? No, I
think I covered it pretty well. Okay, then as a
final question, would you mind just reflecting on
the service that you had here at Texas A&M? What do
you think some of the accomplishments or high
points you had were, and what do you think some of
the things, I don't want to call them low points,
but some of the things that you feel that could have
been done better? Well, this is the high point, of
course.
I mean, as far as Oh yeah, that's beautiful.
And when did you receive the Faculty
Distinguished Achievement Award? It's on the
back. On the back of the watch. 1964.
Well, one of the things that always bothered us, of
course, was actually lack of money. Like I said, we
were always a day late and a dollar short. And I was a
one-man department through the war years. Sure.
And then we got a little money and we were able to get
technicians to actually prepare the specimen
instead of having to go back at night and do it
yourself. And
the highlights were that My dad sold insurance, my
mother talked all the time, so I had to get the jab,
and I was quite interested in veterinary
parasitology, and I was invited to talk at various
state meetings across the United States, and I've
been in at all the veterinary colleges that were
established at that time.
And I guess the high point was when I got to go to
Germany to the International Veterinary Medical
Association to give a paper on parasites of the
horses. Really? When was that? That sounds
fascinating. When was I in Germany, honey?
I don't remember, 1950s
or early 60s. And then I have been on other
international veterinary programs. I went to
Mexico City and went to 1950 in Lima, Peru. And I
enjoyed those, first because I got my expenses
paid. Sure, and you got to see part of the world.
The one thing that
I did that was probably pretty well among the first
at Texas A&M, now at the commonplace, was that I got
a leave of absence and got to go to Peru to help
establish the experiment station for the
Peruvian government. And I was down there one
semester in 1954. Really? And they didn't have any
type of experiment? Oh, they had one, but they
wanted to pattern it out in the United States, and I
helped set up the operators.
They did the operation as well as they could, but
that had a lot of frustrations because it was a
whole lot like dropping a die into a fast-running
brook. You could see it cover for a minute and then
it'd be gone. You mean the Peruvians didn't have
the training, or what were the problems? Both, and
it's just a type of personality, for example.
Peruvians, I guess like many Spanish-Americans,
pretty much a family unit. So they were on the
personnel of an experiment station. There were
several families. Consequently, there were
several kids. And these kids made pets out of the
animals. They'd take a corn cob and go up to a big
bramble bull and rub him. He'd lay down until you
rub him all over. And
one morning, a big bull had through arms in his ear.
And I was going to treat it. And the chute was just
made out of actually flimsy wood. And I said, we
better put a rope on him and put it around this tree.
That chute won't hold him. And they just laughed.
Oh, El Toro was gentle. Well, I reached up and
grabbed his store here, and he exploded, and
little pieces of chute went everywhere. And he
trod off. He was gentle, but he just didn't like to
be handled. So I said, well, let's get a rope on the
tree. And they said, oh, well, we can do that
tomorrow. And that's the way it was all the time.
And I had a little boy help me get fecal samples to
examine for evidence of parasitism. And I
couldn't make him understand why he should wash
his hands between each sample. So I wouldn't get
the samples mixed up. He said, they're already
dirty. Why wash them? In other words, that was it.
There was a cultural and a language gap then, both.
But I felt like I did a little good. Who knows? I've
always wanted to go back and see, but never had a
chance. Do we have much of a, does Texas A&M have
much of an international program? Yeah, the
school as such does. I mean the School of
Veterinary Medicine. No. Mm-hmm. So in other
words, we never bring in foreign students? Oh
yeah, they're sent here. I'll tell you, you can
talk to the international guy out here. I forget
who he's in charge of now. But we have students from
other places, mainly there for advanced degrees.
In fact, I've had several Filipino students that I
really, really admired. I had quite a few
Pakistani students that I didn't think so much of,
but kindly. Why not? Oh, I don't know. Their
personality is just different. Oh, I see. But the
Filipinos you got along with. Oh, yeah. Why was
that? Well, I don't know. They're just likeable
cousins.
We had a fellow from Ireland come over and stay with
us six months. I don't know what program he was on,
whether Ireland was paying for it or whether he was
on a state deal. He was a lot of fun. Where was he
from? Dublin. Oh, Dublin. Robert P. Lee. He was
always butting because if he had known he was going
to come here, he'd have changed it to Robert E. Lee.
We had a lot of good fellas.
Is there anything else you think we should
discuss? Oh, I think that ought to close it up.
There's a lot of information I can't give you like
foreign students. Oh, we can get that from other
sources. There's no problem there. Okay, this
ends our interview with Dr. R.D. Turk. Thank you
very much. Yes, sir.